# trusting your body
there are many interesting things i've learned and observed in the past year that are difficult for me to untangle from my flourishing transness. it's hard to say whether that's because they are naturally intertwined with the river of characteristics we call femininity, or because embracing my transness has been facilitated by a huge increase in self acceptance and accompanying clarity. like most things, it's probably both and more, and per one of the lessons, i'm less interested in proving the universal truth of my experience through [[the patriarchy of reason]]. 

i want to explore one of them today, which is a deepened connection with my body. 

before i dive in, i want to acknowledge (if i ever share this with anyone) that: male and female, man and woman, masculine and feminine - are just concepts, and culturally-specific generalized concepts at that. sexual anatomy is a spectrum, and through time, genetics, environment, medical intervention, chemicals, or any number of other factors can change and move fluidly. if you're reading this you're also probably on board with the idea that higher layer concepts in this bundle, like gender and sexuality, are fluid and spectral imaginary things as well, but if not, well, they are. and while there are certainly _cultural_ connections between all these spectral fluids that we attempt to sort into binary solids (eg if you have a penis and testicles and some hair on your face and more testosterone than estrogen and no ovaries or uterus or breasts then you should walk down the pathway through life labelled 'man'), that has nothing to with the messy and actually real experience of being a human being in this wacky, often horrifying, and (when the chemicals in your brain decide to dance with adequate grace) heart-breakingly gorgeous universe.

alright, disclaimer out of the way, i'm going to talk about my experience of feminity as a White trans woman who came of age through the turn of the millenium, has lived her adult life through the start of the 21st century, and embraced her womanhood openly and consciously in the COVID pandemic of the 2020s, alongside many other of my trans sisters for whom quarantine's relief from daily public scrutiny offered a pathway to freedom (i may attempt to write about my perception of this phenomenon at some point but to do it justice would require research, data, and my not being a literal idiot who's never studied gender or feminism in any formal capacity in my life -- so on second thought maybe that exploration is better left for a smart person -- i may journal about about my personal transition experience at some point though). and thus when i say femininity, i mean the flow of physical, emotional, spiritual, and mental traits associated with the above context.

- whiteness and masculinity both confer privilege. privilege confers power. power restricts. capitalism and colonialism do the same as well. the internet amplifies this. to live within these systems is to live with daily, passive violence that forces you out of your body and into mental constructs. in general it seems the more aspects of power your embody in these systems, the more you are forced out of the body
- particularly, many strains of White Christianity, as the mythological framework of all of the above, train us out of the body.
- as i finally let myself sink into the deep well of femininity i've been attempting to, with increasing desperation, tread water at the surface of my whole life, as i let go and was okay with dying over living this way any longer, to my surprise i found i could breathe under water.
- this discovery, that i was a different creature entirely than what i had assumed, created a seed of trust in my body.
- nourishing that seed has led me to embrace my body as a woman and the fruits and flowers of this seed have been nourishing and beautiful. 
	- i take care of myself because i love and cherish the body i'm taking care of, rather than trying to craft it for observation and consumption.
	- i exercise because i enjoy it. i've always hated exercise, but i've learned to find practices i enjoy and stick with (running very slowly, yoga, pilates) based on how they make me feel. i refuse to motivate myself with coercion. what's the point? i'm going to get old and die, i'm not going to waste hours out of my week for the rest of my life because i'm 'supposed' to do a certain amount of cardio. fuck that. i want to feel good when i exercise and that guides me.
	- there's a backwards logic to all this, i eat healthier because i'm not eating to cope with stress or shame (most of the time - a mid-week stress pizza is still a semi-regular occurrence). i exercise more because it makes me happy and i'm not forcing myself. i focus better at work because i'm not sending my body into a tight, disconnected stress spiral so i can operate in a purely mental state.
	- trust is where this all starts. you _have to trust_ your body, and _you have to_ chill and love yourself through some _repeated_ -- let me emphasize that -- _*repeated*_ failure to work through this kind of transition. there's absolutely no reason, considering the world we live in, that you should be skilled at operating without negative, coercive mental pressure or shame. that's how 99% of us were raised and trained to be. learning to share these failures openly and honestly, having the courage to trust yourself, to continually circle back to what matters to you and push yourself forward to finding health, joy, balance, connection, and honesty, it will work in the end. you will start shift. and like all things in life, this is a feedback loop. that little bit of trust translating into a little bit of real, positive progress, generates more trust, and more progress.