# work as solace, how to find the time and strength to clean up the garden
an interesting dichotomy has emerged in my life. although many people have been going through some of the worst years of their life amid a global pandemic, i have been having my best.

for reasons too long and personal to cover here, my life until roughly the past year was one of repetitive trauma and disaster.   over the past few years, the seeds i planted of trying to change and face into this, which many others watered with love and wisdom, began to sprout and start some early blossoms. it's been a wonderful thing, but it's left me in a difficult state with new challenges. you see, while my career, love, identity, and self-acceptance have begun to flourish, the rest of the garden is in a state of wreckage. it's been very difficult, and i have largely failed at, trying to tend to these growing flowers and begin to clean everything else up. 

tending my career has become a tool of solace and focus, which makes sense. it's a difficult plant to grow, and critical for the rest of the garden's health, if it's flourishing, it's only natural to want to tend fully to it, to focus on it and not the ruined and fallow soil surrounding it. 

before i got into tech from a connection (via a job i was well qualified for, but nonetheless required the luck of that connection to discover and land) my life was marked by menial jobs for shit pay (bussing tables, demolition on construction sites inhaling god knows what that will probably kill me one day for a weekly envelope of cash). i also inherited a large amount of what i call 'financial trauma' -- for example, one of my parents opened a credit card in my name and never paid it, ruining my credit before i ever even had it. i've never recovered from this. i don't even know how, or if its possible. one thing i've learned about pain is that as a species we can be accustomed to nearly anything. getting a job with health insurance for the first time at age 29 was a revelation for me. i had faced both chronic and acute physical and mental health issues my entire life without it, which generates soul-crushing medical debt, which is of course utterly un-payable for people who work jobs that don't provide insurance. 

by this time, i had such acute anxiety and deep self-loathing that giving my daily standup to a group of 5 people caused me to visibly tremble. i had also developed crippling substance abuse disorders (primarily every few months going into a multi-day suicidal alcohol binge state where i tried to blackout and die) to cope with the open wound that was my daily experience, which fought constantly to keep at bay, but regularly reached out to smash me _hard_ into the dirt. 

it's hard to imagine as the person i am now, in many very concrete ways, that _was_ an entirely different human being. in spite of this though, at work, i thrived. it turned out that as a 'gifted kid' who had been ripped down the 'wrong path' at an early age, this was actually a step back onto the 'right'. i worked inside, either alone or with other nice, smart, interesting, less-damaged people, on a computer, solving puzzles, finding answers to questions, getting what for me at the time was an enormous sum of money ($32,000 / year). it became the first time in my life i'd ever had something i could control. 

i worked _hard_ and _ceaselessly_. i climbed the ladder quickly, a year after starting i was managing a team, soon after a director. i befriended amazing senior devs and with them put in enormous extra hours learning and shipping frontend apps for internal tooling, teaching myself to write SQL and answer the string of questions i had about how to make a bigger impact. soon product managers started coming to me to help answer questions and build things. i managed people, i ran a section of our data, i helped build tools, i glued a bunch of stuff together. and i had purpose too! all of these rotated around the thrilling (to me) goal of building the largest, most detailed database of musical instrument information in the world and bringing this to bear on a two-sided marketplace.